Jenkins 6 (#159)
terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation: 0-bootstrap/README-Jenkins.md

  - VPC to connect the Jenkins GCE Instance to
  - FW rules to allow communication over port 22
  - VPN connection with on-prem (or where ever your Jenkins Master is located)

>   - Custom service account `sa-jenkins-agent-gce@prj-cicd-xxxx.com` for the GCE instance.

Author: Done.

      - This service account is granted the access to generate tokens on the Terraform custom service account in the `cft-seed` project

> - **Note:** these **instructions do not indicate how to create a Jenkins Master.** To deploy a Jenkins Master, you should follow one of the available user guides about [Jenkins in GCP](https://cloud.google.com/jenkins).

Author: Done. Thank you!

     - Access to the Jenkins Master host to run `ssh-keygen` command
     - Access to the Jenkins Master Web UI
     - [SSH Agent Jenkins plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/ssh-agent) installed in your Jenkins Master

>      - Private IP address for the Jenkins Agent: usually assigned by your network administrator. You will use this IP for the GCE instance that will be created in the `prj-cicd` GCP Project in step [II. Create the SEED and CICD projects using Terraform](#II-Create-the-SEED-and-CICD-projects-using-Terraform).

Author: Thank you Daniel. Could you please clarify why is that? All our setup worked fine using 10.x.x.x addresses. Also, enterprises might be using 192.168 as well, no?

>      - Private IP address for the Jenkins Agent: usually assigned by your network administrator. You will use this IP for the GCE instance that will be created in the `prj-cicd` GCP Project in step [II. Create the SEED and CICD projects using Terraform](#II-Create-the-SEED-and-CICD-projects-using-Terraform).

Reviewer: Daniel is referring to the IP ranges presented in the Whitepaper, more especifically the table **2.17** in the second line that describes the "_IP space to support independent subnet for the deployment pipeline._" for the CICD project.

>     cp -R ../terraform-example-foundation/0-bootstrap/* .

Reviewer: This line should be like the other ones like 

    cp -RT ../terraform-example-foundation/0-bootstrap/ .

Author: Done.

1. Run terraform commands.
    - After the credentials are configured, we will create the `cft-seed` project (which contains the GCS state bucket and Terraform custom service account) and the `prj-cicd` project (which contains the Jenkins Agent, its custom service account and where we will add VPN configuration)
    - **WARNING: Make sure you have commented-out the `cloudbuild_bootstrap` module and enabled the `jenkins_bootstrap` module in the `./main.tf` file**
    - **Use Terraform 0.12.24** to run the terraform script with the commands below
    ```
    terraform init
    terraform plan
    terraform apply
    ```
    - The Terraform script will take about 10 to 15 minutes. Once it finishes, note that communication between on-prem and the `prj-cicd` project won’t happen yet - you will configure the VPN network connectivity in step [III. Create VPN connection](#III-Create-VPN-connection).

1. Move Terraform State to the GCS bucket created in the seed project
   1. Rename `backend.tf.example` to `backend.tf`

>    1. Run `terraform output gcs_bucket_tfstate` to get the tfstate bucket name

Reviewer: Should run this command *before* the rename to avoid errors about consistency.

Author: Done.

1. Run terraform commands.
    - After the credentials are configured, we will create the `cft-seed` project (which contains the GCS state bucket and Terraform custom service account) and the `prj-cicd` project (which contains the Jenkins Agent, its custom service account and where we will add VPN configuration)
    - **WARNING: Make sure you have commented-out the `cloudbuild_bootstrap` module and enabled the `jenkins_bootstrap` module in the `./main.tf` file**

>     - **Use Terraform 0.12.24** to run the terraform script with the commands below

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why we are recommending just `0.12.24`?

Author: This is because the errors I saw in my Jenkins about different versions.

All automated scripts use 0.12.24. If you use a newer version during 0-bootstrap, then, our scripts will use an older version to create the state in 1-org. This will create states with different versions.

Author: @bharathkkb - if this is ok, we can merge this. I won't send more changes in this PR

Reviewer 2: I can do a repro to confirm, but my understanding was that as long as its a separate prefix, we can use different TF versions. 
i.e - as bootstrap is done locally it and the state is stored in `terraform/bootstrap/state` it doesnt matter what TF version is used to manage state in other prefixes `terraform/org/state`, `terraform/networks/state` etc
Not a blocker though.

Author: you are right, the states are kept in separate directories in the GCS bucket. The problem I see is that, even though Jenkins should not be automatically deploying code or even using the bootstrap step... having the terraform state with different versions is not a good thing (we don't know how people will use the codebase and I think it is better to alert them about it than leaving them in the dark)

    sed -i "s/UPDATE_ME/$TF_STATE_GCS_BUCKET_NAME/" backend.tf
    ```

>    **If using MacOS:** sed command works different

Reviewer 2: I am still a bit confused if we need two sets of instructions. The `sed -i ".bak"` works across both but again we are now providing instructions per platform. if we are agreeing on providing instructions for both FreeBSD and GNU sed then maybe we should standardize this across the whole repo?
@daniel-cit @rjerrems wdyt?

Author: @daniel-cit alerted me about the possible issue of people wanting instructions per platform I added this. I would like to hear from the rest of you to see it makes sense to remove these steps altogether.

Reviewer 3: @caleonardo @bharathkkb I would replace from `Run this command to copy the backend.tf` to `rm backend.tf.bak`

with just:

1. Rename backend.tf.example to backend.tf
1. Run `terraform output gcs_bucket_tfstate` to get the tfstate bucket name
1. Edit file `backend.tf` and replace `UPDATE_ME` with the tfstate bucket name

Author: Done. Thank you.

    - You need to configure a **"Multibranch Pipeline"**. Note that the `Jenkinsfile` and `tf-wrapper.sh` files use the `$BRANCH_NAME` environment variable. **the `$BRANCH_NAME` variable is only available in Jenkins' Multibranch Pipelines**.

1. In your Jenkins Master Web UI, **create Multibranch Pipelines only for the following repositories:**
    ```
    YOUR_NEW_REPO-1-org
    YOUR_NEW_REPO-2-environments
    YOUR_NEW_REPO-3-networks
    YOUR_NEW_REPO-4-projects
    ```
    - **Reminder: DO NOT configure an automatic pipeline for `YOUR_NEW_REPO-0-bootstrap`**

1. Assuming your new Git repositories are private, you may need to configure new credentials In your Jenkins Master web UI, so it can connect to the repositories.

1. You will also want to configure automatic triggers in each one of the Jenkins Multibranch Pipelines, unless you want to run the pipelines manually from the Jenkins Web UI after each commit to your repositories.

> 1. You can now move to the instructions in the step [1-org](../1-org/envs/shared/README.md).

Reviewer: The correct link is `../1-org/README.md`

Author: Done.

  - Assuming your network administrator already configured the on-prem end of the VPN, the CICD end of the VPN might show the message `First Handshake` for around 5 minutes.
  - When the VPN is ready, the status will show `Tunnel is up and running`. At this point, your Jenkins Master (on-prem) and Jenkins Agent (in `prj-cicd` project) must have network connectivity through the VPN.

1. Test a pipeline using the Jenkins Master Web UI:
    1. Make sure your [SSH Agent](https://plugins.jenkins.io/ssh-agent) is online and troubleshoot network connectivity if needed.

>     1. Test that your Master can deploy a pipeline to the Jenkins Agent located in the `prj-cicd` project (you can test by running with a simple `echo "Hello World"` project / job).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Test that your Jenkins Master can deploy a [pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/getting-started/) to the Jenkins Agent located in the `prj-cicd` project (you can test this by running with a simple `echo "Hello World"` pipeline build).
```
